A device that acts as a Wi-Fi client must have the following features:
- it contains a radio card or integrated transmit (TX) and receive (RX), noted as TX/RX
- It contains an antenna
- It operates under 802.11 protocol standards

**Half-Duplex** - Devices that can both transmit and receive TX/RX but can only do one at a time. Ex: WI-FI transmitters 
Wi-Fi chipsets switch between TX and RX so quickly that we don't notice, but this does effectively limit communication  speed.
**Full-Duplex** - Devices that can both transmit and receive simultaneously. Ex: Ethernet
**Simplex** - Devices that only does one; only transmit or receives. Ex: Radio towers


The Wi-F- standards use on or both of two broad frequency bands, around 2.4GHz and 5GHz. Higher frequency means a higher data transmission rate but a shorter rate.
### WI-FI Standards (A Subset)
- **802.11a** (1999) - Operates at 5 GHz and provides data rates between 1.5 Mbps to 54 Mbps
- **802.11b** (1999) - Operates int he 2.4 GHz band, with a throughput of 11Mbps.
	- the first standard to get wide consumer adoption
- **802.11g** (2003) - 2.4 GHz band speeds up to 54Mbps
	- Backward compatible with 802.11b
- **802.11n** (2009) - Operates on both the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz bands, up to 600 Mbps.
	- Better range and throughput achieved through MIMO and 64QAM modulation
	- Allowed for wider (40MHz) channels to increase bandwith
- **802.11ac** (2013) - Extension of 802.11n in the 5 GHz band
	- 256QAM modulation, improved MIMO, wider channels
	- Using multiple channels allows max data rate of 6.9 Gbps
- **802.11ax** (WIFI 6 (2019)) - 9.6 Gbps maximum speed (multiple channels)
	- 2020 addendum adds channels in the 6 GHz range
	- Also called WI-FI high efficiency (HE): improves to throughput in high-density areas
	- Not that much faster than 802.11ac for individual clients, but allows more clients to transmit and receive at the same time.
